welcome to the first in a series of
tutorials on using the Finch robot and
hummingbird robotics kit with snap an
environment that allows anyone to
quickly program animations games and now
robots within a browser-based
drag-and-drop editor snap is developed
by Jen's MONUC and Brian Harvey and
presented by UC Berkeley
it's a reimplementation of the popular
scratch user interface that adds in
browser capability the ability to create
your own blocks first class lists and
procedures and continuations you can
learn more about snap by visiting their
website at snap Berkeley edu and on this
website you can enter the regular snap
interface by clicking on the run snap
Now button if you're new to snap and
scratch programming you may also want to
look through the reference manual which
is down here so fun click on this you
can now see a snap or scratch based user
interface for programming animations and
games what you don't see here are blocks
for controlling the Finch and
hummingbird before we can use snap with
Finch and hummingbird we need to install
the birdbrain robot server this
application exposes the Finch and
hummingbirds capabilities over the web
providing a way for snap blocks to
communicate with our robots so to do so
first we need to visit w-w-w comm slash
learning slash software / snap and on
this page there are instructions for how
to install how to launch snap
programming details about the Finch
blocks and hummingbird blocks how to
save load and configure the your
programs or projects the current known
issues with the program and also if
you're interested the technical details
on how the application works as well as
the source code so we're in a Windows
environment right now we're going to
download the Windows installer
and we'll wait for that to download and
we'll open that up we'll click run on
the security prompt if you have an
anti-virus program running it may pop up
a warning if so just select run this
program anyway and it will enter a
regular installer
we'll hit install wait for it to install
hit finish
now we'll notice on our desktop we now
have a shortcut to the birdbrain robot
server we also see this under all
programs bird brain robot server there
it is so we'll double click on this and
we'll see the application comes up and
it shows you the current connection
status of the Finch or the hummingbird
as well as an option to open snap to
open the snap programming environment so
let me connect both Finch and
hummingbird so if you've forgotten to
connect a robot before running the
application just close it and reopen it
and now it shows that I have both a
Finch connected and a hummingbird
connected now in this check box if I
wish I can open snap locally so that I'm
not relying on an internet connection to
to run the program so this opens a
version of the snap source code that is
on your hard drive the disadvantage of
that is that you won't be able to save
programs - snaps cloud storage system so
I'm going to open snap in my default
browser which is chrome and it's opening
the blocks for Finch and hummingbird and
there they are in this tutorial we've
covered installation of how to launch
snap with Finch and hummingbird blocks
loaded the following tutorials will
focus on how to use these blocks and
snap thanks for watching